Sto grype in airgapped env doc 3754 (#3459)
harness/developer-hub: docs/security-testing-orchestration/sto-techref-category/grype/grype-setup-in-airgapped.md

---
title: Run Grype scans for STO in air-gapped environments

> description: Image scans with Grype

Author: It's more about setting up Grype than running scans, but yes it should be an imperative. I'm using Set up Grype in air-gapped environments for the title, label, and description.

sidebar_label: Grype scans in air-gapped environments
sidebar_position: 20
---

This topic describes how to set up Anchore Grype in an air-gapped environment. It is provided as a supplement to [Offline and air-gapped environments](https://github.com/anchore/grype#offline-and-air-gapped-environments) in the Grype documentation. 

## Important notes

To run Grype scans in an air-gapped environment, you need the following:

- A private registry or local file server for your local container images, Grype databases, support files, and other artifacts. You need a local web server so that the Grype step can request local artifacts via HTTP and HTTPS.

>   Documentation about setting up a private registry is outside the scope of this topic. For more information, go to the documentation for the artifact tool you want to use. One popular tool for air-gapped environments is JFrog Artifactory; [this blog post](https://jfrog.com/blog/using-artifactory-with-an-air-gap/) provides a comprehensive overview. 

Reviewer: One of the examples in a procedure in this article uses Artifactory. Might be good to inform the user, right here, that this article uses Artifactory as an example, where necessary.

Author: Another good sug!  Implementing in local branch.

  <!-- TBD any other external tools we want to mention? I googled around for information about the other artifact repositories we support, or at least have connectors for...Bamboo, Azure Artifacts, Nexus, etc....I didn't find a lot of info about running these tools in air-gapped environments  -->

- After you set up your registry, you need to load local copies your Harness container images. For more information, go to [Configure STO to Download Images from a Private Registry](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/use-sto/set-up-sto-pipelines/download-images-from-private-registry).

> - You then need to set up Grype per [Offline and air-gapped environments](https://github.com/anchore/grype#offline-and-air-gapped-environments) in the Grype documentation. 

Author: Good tip. I refactored step (it's now a step) as follows: 

3. Install Grype and set it up to run in your air-gapped environment. For more information, go to the following sections in the Grype documentation: 
   - [Installation](https://github.com/anchore/grype#installation)
   - [Offline and air-gapped environments](https://github.com/anchore/grype#offline-and-air-gapped-environments)

## Initial setup

Anchore maintains a Grype database of known vulnerabilities and updates it regularly. The Grype scanner uses this database to detect issues when it scans a target. By default, the scanner downloads the latest database from a public URL when it runs a scan. If the local database is stale, the scan fails.  

The Grype container image provided by Harness includes the latest database at the time the image was built. As part of the initial setup, you will configure Grype to use the local database and override (temporarily) the default stale-database check.

> 

Reviewer: Can we insert a lead-in? "To set up Grype, do the following:"?

Author: To to verify that Grype runs as intended in your air-gapped environment, do the following:

1. Install the Grype scanner in your air-gapped environment. For more information, go to [Installation](https://github.com/anchore/grype#installation) in the Grype documentation.  

2. Add a CI Build or Security Tests stage to your Harness pipeline.

3. Set up a [Grype step](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/sto-techref-category/grype/grype-scanner-reference) in the stage. 

4. Add the following settings to the Grype step:

   1. `GRYPE_DB_AUTO_UPDATE` = `FALSE` Disables downloading a new database.
   2. `GRYPE_DB_VALIDATE_AGE` = `FALSE` Disables the staleness check for the database.

   ![](../static/grype-airgap-workflow-00.png)

> 5. Run the pipeline and confirm that the local Grype scanner runs correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Run the pipeline and verify that the local Grype scanner runs correctly.
```

Author: Updated in local branch.

## Production setup

> To run Grype in a production environment, you need to set up a mechanism to transfer the latest Grype  database to your local registry. The following steps outline the basic workflow. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run Grype in a production environment, you need to set up a mechanism to transfer the latest Grype database to your local registry. The following steps outline the basic workflow:
```

Author: Updated in local branch.

   
   2. Set up a copy of `listing.json` in your local registry. This file specifies the local Grype databases available for running scans.
      1. Download a copy of the [`listing.json`](https://github.com/anchore/grype/blob/main/grype/db/test-fixtures/listing.json) file and upload it to your local registry.  
      2. Edit your local `listing.json` so that it has one entry with the  `"built"`, `"version"`, `"url"`, and `"checksum"` values for the database you just uploaded. 

         Your `listing.json` should now look something like this example. Note that the `url` now points to the local database. 

         ```json
         {
         "available": {
            "1": [
               {
               "built": "2023-09-24T01:25:55Z",
               "checksum": "sha256:a676908681232596b549934651e65109b11dce1c6a86c034a32110653fd95e71",
               "url": "https://artifactory.myorg.internal:443/artifactory/example-repo-local/grype/vulnerability-db_v1_2023-09-24T01:25:55Z_c1e349e7e8023eb909f4.tar.gz",
               "version": 1
               }
               ]
            }
         }
         ```

>       3. Upload your updated `listing.json` to your local registry. 

Reviewer: Sub-step 1 already ends with "and upload it to your local registry." Apologies if we are referring to two different files with the same name. If this instruction is indeed duplicated, maybe remove it from step 1, because step 2 updates the file and then step 3 instructs the user to upload it.

Author: Yes, this was incorrect. You shouldn't upload the local JSON in substep 1. You need to edit it (substep 2)  and THEN upload it (substep 3). I've updated the procedure accordingly.

      For more information about Grype databases, go to [Grype's databases](https://github.com/anchore/grype#grypes-database) in the Grype documentation.
   
   3. Add this setting to the Grype step in your Harness pipeline: 

>       - `GRYPE_DB_UPDATE_URL` = The URL to the `listing.json` in your local registry, for example `ttps://artifactory.myorg.internal:443/artifactory/example-repo-local/grype/listing.json`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `GRYPE_DB_UPDATE_URL` = URL to the `listing.json` file in your local registry. For example, `https://artifactory.myorg.internal:443/artifactory/example-repo-local/grype/listing.json`
```

   4. Run the pipeline again and verify that the Grype step runs as intended.     

> 2. Before your Grype step is production-ready, you need to configure the Grype scanner to check the database build time and fail the scan if the database is stale. To enable the staleness check, set the following settings in the Grype step as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Before your Grype step is production-ready, you need to configure the Grype scanner to check the database at build time and fail the scan if the database is stale. To enable the staleness check, configure the settings in the Grype step, as follows:
```
Also, in the output, this shows up as step 5, and it looks to be correct that way. Should this be numbered 5?

Author: It should be step 1 (substeps a-e) and step 2 (substeps a-b). Updating in local branch.

>    1. `GRYPE_DB_VALIDATE_AGE` = `TRUE` Enables the staleness check for the database. (You added this setting as part of the [initial setup](#initial-setup).)
>    2. `GRYPE_DB_MAX_ALLOWED_BUILT_AGE` = The maximum allowable age of a database before it is considered stale and the Grype scan fails. Specify the age using [golang's time duration syntax](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration). Valid examples include `24h` (one day) and `120h` (five days). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. `GRYPE_DB_VALIDATE_AGE` = `TRUE`. Enables the staleness check for the database. (You added this setting as part of the [initial setup](#initial-setup).)
   2. `GRYPE_DB_MAX_ALLOWED_BUILT_AGE` = `<age>`. The maximum allowable age of a database before it is considered stale and the Grype scan fails. Replace `<age>` with a value of your choice. Use [Golang's time duration syntax](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration). Valid examples include `24h` (one day) and `120h` (five days). 
```
(The equal sign in the second setting was a little hard to interpret correctly on the first pass because it was not enclosed in backticks. Took me a few seconds to realize that the running text to the right of the equal sign represented the value of the setting. Please check if this suggestion works, or replace it with anything of your choice. Thanks.)

Author: Thanks for the tip! I've formatted the settings and hard-coded values in bold to highlight them
